---
layout: blog-programming
title: Why I migrated from Wordpress to Jekyll
categories: [Tech, Programming, Jekyll]
---
One of the main reasons for migrating was because of security. I have a number of WordPress websites that I look after, and I use the Wordfence security plugin on all of them. I have Wordfence setup to send me weekly activity reports, and each week, without fail, all the WordPress sites are attacked from at least a dozen different countries.

The content on these websites rarely changes once posted, so a static website generator like Jekyll is perfect for my needs and makes my website more secure as the user is accessing static html files, so there are no dynamic php files or database access that can be exploited by attackers. No known security vulnerabilities with WordPress or plugins that can be used by attackers targeting my website. 

A static website generated by Jekyll provides your website with faster page loads as there is no code running to process plugins or to access a database. A static html file loads fast and is secure. Having a static website also means I can use free GitHub Pages Websites for my open source projects and allocate a subdomain or domain for the project website and documentation.

Git source control is another benefit, as I have full version control of my website, and I can use GitHub Actions to automatically deploy the website to either GitHub Pages or my own vps whenever a change is pushed to GitHub.

I have greater flexibility in how I design my website and generate my website content. I can use markdown, html or a combination of both to create my content. I also save money as I'm no longer using paid third party plugins to add features to my website and it's more secure because not using those plugins removes possible security threats that attackers can exploit.

I love that I'm not restricted by a page designer and I can create content my way using any code editor. I can create custom code on the fly for any situation then test locally and once I'm happy I can commit the changes to git and push the changes to GitHub, then the GitHub Actions Workflow I have setup will automatically build and deploy the website, so the latest version is always used without me having to do a thing.

Overall I'm very happy with my new website using Jekyll to generate my website into static html files. It has a minimal learning curve and once setup it's very flexible making it more likely I will create new content.  